# Spatial Audio Theory

## Auralization

Sound, as it operates within physics, is a wave and operates as such. Sound movement within an environment is entirely dependent on the medium within which the wave travels. Sound as it moves through a gas, such as air, can have many factors that change its properties as it moves from source to listener. Representing the nuances of this concept is incredibly difficult and requires a different approach to audio representation than traditional methods. Audio engineering and production utilize a channel based system of input/output. Mono being single channel, Stereo being two channel, 5.1 being the smaller of the surround sound configurations with a sub woofer, and so on. Deviation from the channel system is, at this point in technological development, impractical, so representation of wave based three dimensional audio must come from a channel configuration. Auralization is the research field and practice of simulating sound propagation within a speaker configuration. Binaural algorithms are the recent innovation in accurate directional simulation based on the HRTF help provide a standardized calculation method for equalization, reverberation, and mixing parameters to produce the most accurate and immersive simulation of spatial audio.

## Sound Propagation

Sound, as we perceive it, is a mechanical wave that propagates through a medium, the most common being air. As the kinetic energy of the wave passes through materials, the particle density of the material in question determines how quickly sound travels. A heavier material \(not necessarily denser but physically\) will dissipate energy because the kinetic energy required to move the particles is greater. This phenomena relates to the concept of Acoustic Impedance which determines how different frequencies propagate through. Energy not transferred to the medium is reflected. Practically, this is the reason foam, a low density material, is used to dry reverberation within rooms. In a digital 3D environment, surfaces and objects need to have the acoustic features applied to it. A prominent acoustic feature that works in tandem with acoustic impedance and plays a critical role in spatial audio is diffraction. Diffraction, often referred to in game audio as "obstruction" or "occlusion" is how a sound wave travels to a listener that is not in a direct line of sight to the source. The mechanical physics of a sound wave is important when defining spatial audio algorithms and reproducing it accurately because wave mechanics and proper auralization are what give audio its space in the real world and will thus allow for listeners to perceive a reproduced audio file as spatially realistic.

Auralization and the accurate simulation of sound wave propagation to generation accurate spatial audio information is very complex and has generally increased the required amount of computation and computational performance from devices. Spatialization algorithms require consistent realistic and complex calculations to determine the most spatially realistic, or accurate to the designer's intentions, possible.

